In the first citation, Hegel evokes a relation between past and present that involves a dramatic break between a crumbling old world and an imminently emerging new one. The break, when it comes, is sudden; the new world, which emerges as like a lightning flash (Blitz), is unprecedented. And the present is construed as that moment in which both the fading of the old world and the imminence of the new world can, and must, be apprehended.

the success of our attempts to transcend the limitations of our traditions and forms of life depends on abilities and possibilities that traditions and forms of life pass on (or fail to pass on) to their members. They provide resources for, and not just obstacles to, surpassing their limitations. When seen in light of such interdependence, the renewal and correction of traditions looks to be co-extensive with self-renewal and selfcorrection: self-transcendence will necessarily be outward, not upward.

As a reflective process of self-clarification, getting ourselves “right” involves a learning process that demands a complex cognitive and affective engagement with our forms of life and cultural traditions

But how does our culture open itself up to the future? How does our openness to the future render intelligible (or unintelligible) the ever-shifting constellation of relationships between past, present, and future? Are there better and worse ways to be open to the future—better and worse ways to be open to something new?


## **reflectively exercised agency**
We cannot stop the future. We must go on. But why must we go on unreflectively? What presses us to go on toward that which we have had neither the time nor the opportunity to question, reject, or endorse under appropriately reflective conditions?

Must we be architects of a fully determinate future if we are properly to comprehend the present and make sense of the past? The lately departed twentieth century saw the rise of some truly monstrous architecture created by selfproclaimed “architects of the future.” Evidently they suffered from no lack of confidence: either about their own architectural talents or about the legitimacy of the utopia they wanted to build. The architecture of horror that blackened the twentieth century is surely not what Nietzsche had in mind; although, uncannily, he was able to foresee its possibility. But there is no way of getting around the fact that without some explicit normative constraints his call for “architects of the future” appears to be an invitation to disaster. It comes alarmingly close to the most dangerous of modernist fantasies, fantasies in the name of which the architecture of the future becomes a license to annihilate rather than to understand the past. In Nietzsche’s defense, however, it should be said that a determinate future would not, on his view, be a future to which we ought to say yes, for it is precisely the demand that the future conform to the determination of our will that leads to nihilism and destructiveness. To imagine the future with complete determinacy would be to deny the indeterminacy essential to the future—essential to the openness of the future. Thus this stance to the future would consist not in its affirmation but in its negation.