https://dspace.mit.edu/bitstream/handle/1721.1/38910/05243001-MIT.pdf?sequence=2&isAllowed=y

The major points elaborated in this report are the structure of a non-monotonic dependency system for representing knowledge about beliefs, the use of a truth maintenance system in using this representation of knowledge to maintain beliefs consistent with recorded justifications, the application of dependency relationships in effecting backtracking, and mechanisms for separating levels of detail and their dependencies. The non-monotonic dependency system formalizes several types of justifications including premises, beliefs which are independent of other beliefs; deductions, beliefs derived from other beliefs; conditional proofs, beliefs summarizing the derivability of one belief from others; and assumptions, the non-monotonic mechanism whereby a belief is based on a lack of contradictory knowledge. These basic representational techniques combine to allow perspicuous implementations of sets of alternatives and selectors of equivalence class representatives. Beliefs consistent with recorded justifications can be efficiently determined via truth maintenance, a process invoked whenever beliefs change due to the addition of new information or the retraction of hypotheses. Truth maintenance involves an examination of those beliefs explicitly linked, by means of the dependency system, to the changed beliefs. The truth maintenance system exercises the care required to avoid spurious beliefs produced by circularities among the justifications for beliefs. Exploiting all the facilities provided by the dependency and truth maintenance systems, dependency-directed backtracking examines the well-founded support recorded for beliefs involved in inconsistencies to determine the set of hypotheses underlying the inconsistency. Retraction of premises supporting an inconsistency is outside the domain of a truth maintenance system, but the dependency relationships involving non-monotonic assumptions can be analyzed to provide a basis for the retraction of assumptions. The causes of the inconsistency can be summarized via a conditional proof, and this summarized cause can then be used to add new justifications which retract one of the underlying assumptions by providing new knowledge which ends the lack of knowledge upon which the assumption was based. Finally, the mechanism of conditional proof can easily be used to separate hierarchical levels of detail in explanations. This is accomplished by justifying information at one level in terms of the conditional proof of the corresponding information at the lower levels relative to the higher level structures. This separation is important not only in improving the clarity of explanations, but in aiding processes, like dependencydirected backtracking, which must interrogate these explanations to analyze inconsistencies. In the case of dependency-directed backtracking, the separation of levels of detail reduces the number of assumptions relevant to a given inconsistency, thereby increasing the efficiency of the backtracking process