<<<<<<< Updated upstream:ECSA/ECSA Grammar/Agency.md
An AGENCY is a collective [[Agent]]: a [[Network]] of AGENTs appearing and acting together as a coherent whole without any central decision making. A contractual relationship of many to many via a [[Network Derivative]]. Also known as the composite [[Agent]], synthetic [[Agent]], [[Derivative]] [[Agent]], distributed [[Agent]], [[Derivative Community]]. Agencies may be public or private, uniquely identifiable and able to participate in other ECONOMIC SPACEs as a coherent whole. Through this composition the [[Space]]-[[Protocol]]">[[Economic Space]] [[Protocol]] enables the creation of large scale collaborative organizational NETWORKs. When viewing AGENTs in these NETWORKs organized around a specific intent we refer to them as Agencies.
=======
[[ECSA Grammar]]

An AGENCY is a collective [[AGENT]]: a [[NETWORK]] of AGENTs appearing and acting together as a coherent whole without any central decision making. A contractual relationship of many to many via a [[Network Derivative]]. Also known as the composite [[AGENT]], synthetic [[AGENT]], [[DERIVATIVE]] [[AGENT]], distributed [[AGENT]], [[Derivative Community]]. Agencies may be public or private, uniquely identifiable and able to participate in other ECONOMIC SPACEs as a coherent whole. Through this composition the [[SPACE]]-[[protocol]]">[[Economic SPACE]] [[Protocol]] enables the creation of large scale collaborative organizational NETWORKs. When viewing AGENTs in these NETWORKs organized around a specific intent we refer to them as Agencies.
>>>>>>> Stashed changes:ECSA Grammar/Agency.md
