<<<<<<< Updated upstream:ECSA/ECSA Grammar/Decentralized Finance.md
DeFi has so far introduced ‘stablecoins’ as mechanisms for [[Token]] exchange rate [[Stability]] with respect to fiat currencies and pooling mechanisms for stabilizing [[Token]] PRICEs; and, more recently, also decentralized banking and insurance PROTOCOLs: that assets need not lie idle, but can be mobilized for borrowing and lending, with mechanisms of insurance OFFERed on the side. Lending is then giving rise to the potential for leverage: borrowing in order to take positions in MARKETs. That, in turn, is opening up issues like [[Collateral]] requirements with margin calls and default risk. Predictably, we are seeing next the [[Issuance]] of [[Derivative]] financial products like credit default SWAPs (CDS) and COLLATERALized [[Debt]] obligations (CDO) designed to on-sell default risk from those who wish to avoid it to those prepared to carry it for a fee. These developments have the hallmark of the sorts of [[Derivative]] products being traded in the lead-up to the 2007 global financial crisis. Whether they are pointing to crypto’s ‘Minsky moment’ ’is questuon, for the products themselves were never the source of crisis; it was their [[Governance]], expressed in pricing models and the conditions of access to leverage they were built upon. It is not surprising that the emergence of cryptoDERIVATIVEs and a focus on DeFi [[Governance]] are emerging concurrently. We are interested in moving from DeFi to SOCIAL DERIVATIVEs (using finance to create different socialities).
=======
[[ECSA Grammar]]

DeFi has so far introduced ‘stablecoins’ as mechanisms for [[TOKEN]] exchange rate [[STABILITY]] with respect to fiat currencies and pooling mechanisms for stabilizing [[TOKEN]] PRICEs; and, more recently, also decentralized banking and insurance PROTOCOLs: that assets need not lie idle, but can be mobilized for borrowing and lending, with mechanisms of insurance OFFERed on the side. Lending is then giving rise to the potential for leverage: borrowing in order to take positions in MARKETs. That, in turn, is opening up issues like [[COLLATERAL]] requirements with margin calls and default risk. Predictably, we are seeing next the [[ISSUANCE]] of [[DERIVATIVE]] financial products like credit default SWAPs (CDS) and COLLATERALized [[DEBT]] obligations (CDO) designed to on-sell default risk from those who wish to avoid it to those prepared to carry it for a fee. These developments have the hallmark of the sorts of [[DERIVATIVE]] products being traded in the lead-up to the 2007 global financial crisis. Whether they are pointing to crypto’s ‘Minsky moment’ ’is questuon, for the products themselves were never the source of crisis; it was their [[GOVERNANCE]], expressed in pricing models and the conditions of access to leverage they were built upon. It is not surprising that the emergence of cryptoDERIVATIVEs and a focus on DeFi [[GOVERNANCE]] are emerging concurrently. We are interested in moving from DeFi to SOCIAL DERIVATIVEs (using finance to create different socialities).
>>>>>>> Stashed changes:ECSA Grammar/Decentralized Finance.md
