<<<<<<< Updated upstream:ECSA/ECSA Grammar/Decolonized Finance.md
Decolonised finance means the necessity of financial PROTOCOLs to become the focus of democratic demands. Yet very different to [[Decentralized Finance]]. Decolonisation means unmaking the naturnalness of dominating principles of rule (the PROTOCOLs), mostly unconscious embrace of terms of exchange – like [[Price]] as the only index, profit as the only measure of [[Value]], the capital/labor relationship – that are uneven & unequal, but are encapsulating forms of economic and financial association, community and selves. Never a straightforward question of escape (the colonised_desire_their colonisation and hate the decolonised), but of reappropriating the capacity of assembly, of affinity, of association, of [[Value]] giving circulation – that capital & finance claim to belong to them. Decolonisation means reorienting the principles (the PROTOCOLs) by which people rule their own movements & how they [[Value]] these associations on their own terms. ECSA is decolonising finance.
=======
[[ECSA Grammar]]

Decolonised finance means the necessity of financial PROTOCOLs to become the focus of democratic demands. Yet very different to [[DECENTRALIZED FINANCE]]. Decolonisation means unmaking the naturnalness of dominating principles of rule (the PROTOCOLs), mostly unconscious embrace of terms of exchange – like [[PRICE]] as the only index, profit as the only measure of [[VALUE]], the capital/labor relationship – that are uneven & unequal, but are encapsulating forms of economic and financial association, community and selves. Never a straightforward question of escape (the colonised_desire_their colonisation and hate the decolonised), but of reappropriating the capacity of assembly, of affinity, of association, of [[VALUE]] giving circulation – that capital & finance claim to belong to them. Decolonisation means reorienting the principles (the PROTOCOLs) by which people rule their own movements & how they [[VALUE]] these associations on their own terms. ECSA is decolonising finance.
>>>>>>> Stashed changes:ECSA Grammar/Decolonized Finance.md
