(1) SPACE is a programmable environment enabled by the Space.[[Agency]]/vision/#space">Space [[Language]]. It expands similar semantics to SmallTalk or Self by adding the [[Agent]] and the [[Offer]] as first [[class]] citizens of the [[Language]] to become able to describe logical NETWORKs. This makes SPACE a powerful, capability oriented, multi-[[Agent]] [[Network]] programming environment. In other words, it is an organisational calculus to reason about and describe NETWORKs as relationships and interactions between AGENTs within a SPACE. Within SPACE’s semantics, “a space” is a stateful container that binds resources and AGENTs together, creating a relationship where their EXPRESSIONs and interactions gain a context.

  

(2) SPACE is a [[Language]] to describe and define NETWORKs, multiAGENT interactions (or “DApps”), in a formal and mathematically modeled way (an organizational calculus). It makes NETWORKs, their [[TOKENs]] and AGENTs and their logics – both economic and governmental – programmable. With SPACE [[Language]] we can define who are the members of the [[Network]], what are the PROTOCOLs the [[Network]] follows, what are its records, names of things, how its state transitions take place. SPACE programs these relations statically in SPACE, but also in time, meaning their progression, how they compute: the [[Network]] (“DApp”) is a living creature, it acts, orients towards the world, it changes, it transforms, it evolves.

  

(3) A SPACE as a stateful place of interaction that can be private or public. A SPACE is a container that helps you organize and delineate your actions, and the resources necessary to perform them, as an ordered and coherent whole. The [[function]], structure, and contents of your SPACE is determined by your intent. To keep a SPACE focused and effective, a SPACE must contain only the resources required to perform its intent. A SPACE contains Agents, Protocols and other Resources and defines authority boundary. A SPACE can be private or public. A private SPACE is a SPACE of interaction that is shared only across specific parties. A public SPACE is a SPACE of interaction that is shared with anyone who wants to participate in it / enter it. AGENTs have private SPACE and are able to issue and hold RIGHTs, accept and receive OFFERs, they maintain their own “blockchain”. [[Protocol]] is the basis to create RIGHTs, it is the rules of interaction, a sequence of EXPRESSIONs that describes a state transition. Reference points to a resource, it is authority over the referenced resource and utilized in EXPRESSIONs. [[Offer]] is an [[Expression]] of intent among AGENTs, it creates a relationship, a SPACE for the relationship,  and composes into NETWORKs of relations. Accepting an [[Offer]] creates a shared SPACE. Space transfer enables moving from shared SPACE to distributed SPACE, from verifiable state to a verifiable [[Protocol]]. We can understand Space as a place of interaction among two or more AGENTs, whom are able to change it only according to the rules of the PROTOCOLs (the physics of the SPACE). SPACEs are stateful and always shared whether by the programmer and the runtime, the user and the application, two or more users, etc.

(4) SPACE is a [[Grammar]] whose actions and words are: SPACE, [[Agent]], [[Offer]], [[Function]], Task, Object, [[Protocol]], Reference, Record, Channel, Message 

(5) SPACE is a [[Protocol]]: a set of EXPRESSIONs following the SPACE [[Language]] (that follows SPACE [[Protocol]] [[Grammar]]), that clearly and unambiguously describe the reliable [[Performance]] of actions among multiple SPACE AGENTs and affecting or requiring resources. It enables you to reliably collaborate with other SPACE AGENTs, organizing without necessarily favoring centralized and/or hierarchical structures. Although the [[Protocol]] allows the [[Expression]] and operation of legacy organizations if such is your desire. The SPACE [[Protocol]] is designed to be substrate independent. It is our desire to see a wide array of implementations: As sophisticated as a programming [[Language]] or as simple as a board game.