(1) OFFER is a [[PROTOCOL]], but also an [[EXPRESSION]] of intent among AGENTs.  It creates a new relationship and a new [[SPACE]] for that relationship. An [[ECONOMIC SPACE]] is collaborative in nature. Since collaboration requires voluntary participation, such collaboration is mediated through OFFERs. An OFFER is the mechanism by which AGENTs express to each other specific instructions to accomplish their intent. Like a [[PROTOCOL]], an OFFER is a set of EXPRESSIONs that unambiguously and clearly encode a process to be reliably performed within the [[scope]] of a [[SPACE]]. Unlike a [[PROTOCOL]], these EXPRESSIONs are not determinate, and can be amended through an “OFFER composition” process, making the OFFER an OFFER [[NETWORK]]. The EXPRESSIONs in the OFFER must follow the [[ECONOMIC SPACE]] [[GRAMMAR]], and may issue or invoke [[ECONOMIC SPACE]] RIGHTs; for example to issue other OFFERs, create new SPACEs, new ROLEs, new tasks, new RIGHTs or new objects, altering the state of the [[SPACE]]. 

(2) OFFER is a social relation beyond contract: it is a very different way to create structure to organize [[VOLATILITY]]. It is more than a contract, because it adds and opens a time interval and an interpretant, moving us thus beyond the semiotics of Nick Szabo and Mark Miller (smart contract as an authoritarian concept). OFFER moves us from contracts to metapragmatic, co-textual, optional, SOCIAL DERIVATIVEs.

(3) OFFER is one of the key structures to multi-[[AGENT]] reflective [[NETWORK]] programming.